_pages/about.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: About
permalink: /about/
image: 01.jpg
---

### 👋 Hi, my name is Marcelo Paiva. 

I am fortunate to lead user experience design and research teams for large corporations, consult with startups to build efficient cross-functional teams, processes, and collaborative environments. 

During non-working hours, I share my learnings, successes, and failures with our UX community by hosting monthly events, advocating for accessibility and inclusion by design, not by compliance.

For the past 5 years, my new passion has been performing in an educator capacity, helping community members learn about user-centered design practices and management. I have developed UX curriculums for bootcamps, conducted dozens of workshops, and dedicated hundreds of mentoring hours to the community. 

***

#### User Experience Manager
<small>UKG - Ultimate Kronos Group</small>

Managing the design and research for the Recruiting; Onboarding; Performance Development; Performance Management; Perception (engagement surveys); and Learning products. My main focus is to remove any obstacles and allow team members to continuously learn, grow and lead. 

#### UX Community Leader
<small>South Florida UX Community</small>

My contribution to our local UX community ranges from organizing, speaking, mentoring, and promoting new local leaders. We are organized in different groups to help attend the entire UX spectrum and interests:

- **UX+Fajitas** - Focused on sharing interface design architecture and tools best practices. Come and learn Figma; Sketch; Adobe XD; Protopie; Principle; and more.
- **IxDA South Florida** - Local Interaction Design Association chapter. Knowledge sharing on the strategic side of UX with practitioners of service design and design thinking methodologies.   
- **SOFLUX (UXPA)** - Bringing the industry's best-selling authors and scholars to provide industry trends and ethical design topics. 
- **Equity+Access** - Featuring some of the best minds in the field of disability rights and accessibility.
- **FluxYeah!** - Our vibrant and evergrowing Slack workspace, keeping our members connected and engaged with a daily dose of knowledge sharing, industry news, and latest trends.
- **FluxHours!** - A group of local selfless professionals volunteering to provide 1:1 sessions to help community members.
- **yourportfoliosUX** - A fun way to participate and practice critique sessions. Because every UX professional needs help with portfolio reviews.

***

### Previously on... my career 

#### Creative Director
<small>Sapient Global Markets, New York City</small>

Consulted with various Wall St. banks to accelerate embedded design teams with Lean UX practices.

#### Director of UX
<small>Reuters, Boston/New York City</small>

Among many roles over the 7 years, I was the first certified UX ScrumMaster responsible for creating new methods to help to mix UX designers with engineers, build cross-functional teams, and foster collaborative environments.

#### Product Designer
<small>Verizon, Waltham</small>

Worked on a small task force team, generating new business development ideas, pitching to executives for future industry partner meetings. 

#### Senior Designer
<small>Zefer, Boston/New York</small>

Lead several initiatives around interaction design,  usability studies, and web development for clients such as Fidelity Investments, Citizens Bank, Siemens, and the Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts.  

#### Graphic Designer, Web Designer/Developer
<small>Freelancer</small>

Helped dozens of small businesses take off with a clean and consistent branding set consisting of logomarks,  stationery, business cards, websites, book covers, and book diagraming. 

#### CAD Drafter, Electrical Designer
<small>General Electric, Rio de Janeiro</small>

My career started as an electrical designer, fresh out of technical high school, working for GE in a Six Sigma environment, learning from the best in the industry then. I was fortunate enough to have experienced the traditional technical drafting with steel nib ink pen on paper.

Commit message:

about content images and style fine tuning

_pages/about.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: About
permalink: /about/
image: speak-4.jpg
---

## 👋 Hi, my name is Marcelo Paiva.

I am fortunate to lead user experience design and research teams for large corporations, consult with startups to build efficient cross-functional teams, processes, and collaborative environments. 

During non-working hours, I share my learnings, successes, and failures with our UX community by hosting monthly events, advocating for accessibility and inclusion by design, not by compliance.

***

<small class="break">My work</small> 

#### User Experience Manager
<small>UKG - Ultimate Kronos Group</small>

I lead a team of talented designers and researchers by removing any obstacles to allow them to learn, grow and become new leaders.

***

<small class="break">My joy</small> 

#### UX Community Leader
<small>South Florida UX Community</small>

My contribution to our local UX community ranges from organizing, speaking, mentoring, and promoting new local leaders. We are organized in different groups to help attend the entire UX spectrum and interests:

- **UX+Fajitas** - Focused on sharing interface design architecture and tools best practices. A group to learn Figma; Sketch; Adobe XD; Protopie; Principle; and more.
- **IxDA South Florida** - Local Interaction Design Association chapter. Knowledge sharing on the strategic side of UX with practitioners of service design and design thinking methodologies.   
- **SOFLUX (UXPA)** - Bringing the industry's best-selling authors and scholars to provide industry trends and ethical design topics. 
- **Equity+Access** - Featuring some of the best minds in the field of disability rights and accessibility.
- **FluxYeah!** - Our vibrant and evergrowing Slack workspace, keeping our members connected and engaged with a daily dose of knowledge sharing, industry news, and latest trends.
- **FluxHours!** - A group of local selfless professionals volunteering to provide 1:1 sessions to help community members.
- **yourportfoliosUX** - A fun way to participate and practice critique sessions. Because every UX professional needs help with portfolio reviews.

***

<small class="break">In a not-so-distant past...</small> 

#### As leader

<small>Sapient Global Markets, New York City</small>

Consulted with various Wall Street banks to accelerate embedded design teams with Lean UX practices.

<small>Reuters, Boston/New York City</small>

Contributed as the first certified ScrumMaster, building cross-functional teams and creating new methods to foster collaboration among UX designers, engineers and product management.

***

#### As individual contributor

<small>Verizon, Waltham</small>

Worked on a small task force team, generating new business development ideas, pitching to executives for future industry partner meetings. 

<small>Zefer, Boston/New York</small>

Lead several initiatives around interaction design,  usability studies, and web development for clients such as Fidelity Investments, Citizens Bank, Siemens, and the Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts.  

<small>Freelancer</small>

Helped dozens of small businesses take off with a clean and consistent branding set consisting of logomarks,  stationery, business cards, websites, book covers, and book diagraming. 

<small>General Electric, Rio de Janeiro</small>

My career started as an electrical designer, fresh out of technical high school, working for GE in a Six Sigma environment, learning from the best in the industry then. I was fortunate enough to have experienced the traditional technical drafting with steel nib ink pen on paper.
